#summary All you need to know about DEScribe's languages management.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

This page shows how to make and submit us your own languages XML files to add new languages in DEScribe.


= Location =
- DEScribe's language files are located in "language" directory of DEScribe's folder.<br />

= Contents =
Each XML language file contains the same number of "strings" elements associating a reference of a string to display in DEScribe and its translation in the current language. Reference is not choosen randomly but respects the following pattern :"JavaClassName(dot)VariableName", so it is easier to call the getValueFromRef(ref) in source code.

<br />
For instance, you will find in english.xml the following "string" element :<br />
	<string>
		<ref>SessionFrame(dot)strQuestionsSetLoaded</ref>
		<value>Questions successfully loaded!</value>
	</string> 
<br />Comment : Here,SessionFrame(dot)strQuestionsSetLoaded reference is associated to the effective string "Questions successfully loaded!".
In source code, to get the effective translated string, just use method getValueFromRef("SessionFrame.strQuestionsSetLoaded").

= How it works =
At application's launch, or at language change, a hashmap associating references to strings is filled from xml file. Then, calling getValueFromRef method with in parameter a reference gives you the current translated string.

= How to send us new languages for DEScribe =
- Feel free to submit us new language files so we can add a new language to the application. To proceed, copy a file from directory "language" in DEScribe directory and translate it then rename it "yourlanguage.xml".<br />

= Contacts =
Sebastien Faure <sebastien.faure3@gmail.com><br />
Bertrand Gros 	<gros.bertrand@gmail.com><br />
Yannick Prié 	<yannick.prie@univ-lyon1.fr><br />